Improve the performance of the postgres insertion. (#4149)
collectd/collectd: contrib/postgresql/README.md

			double precision[])		-- values
```

This seems to represent the user_data_t/notification_t structure.
https://github.com/collectd/collectd/blob/ef1e157de1a4f2cff10f6f902002066d0998232c/src/daemon/plugin.h#L172

Let's take the ping plugin as an example. It collects 3 values: ping, ping_stddev, ping_droprate.

> The current structure creates 3 identifiers and 3 lines for each entry. The identifiers get reused. It reports "192.168.200.123" as type.

Reviewer: Where the IP value comes from?

Reviewer 2: From [RFC5737](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc5737/):

>   The blocks 192.0.2.0/24 (TEST-NET-1), 198.51.100.0/24 (TEST-NET-2), and 203.0.113.0/24 (TEST-NET-3) are provided for use in documentation.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: spell out what is being reported here and provide an example. The quotes make it look like this is the literal IP address that is being reported each time.

“The ping plugin reports an IP address in the type instance field, e.g. "192.0.2.42".”

> To draw a diagram with e.g. grafana I would like all 3 values near each other for that host that i am pinging. See the graph in the wiki. The current setup must join through all collected values to scrap the ping values out of it. Each value must do the same again because it has another identifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To draw a diagram with e.g. grafana I would like all 3 values near each other for that host that I am pinging. See the graph in the wiki. The current setup must join through all collected values to scrap the ping values out of it. Each value must do the same again because it has another identifier.
```

Description:
------------

Second database layout is done on postgresql 15, by Georg Gast.

> It has some advantages over first one: The data has much higher data locality as it stays in one table and much less unneeded text columns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It has some advantages over first one: The data has much higher data locality as it stays in one table and has fewer text columns.
```

> This leads to much smaller table spaces. In my case the first setup created about 300 MB per day. The new setup about 50 MB with the advantage of depending data near each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This leads to much smaller table spaces. In my case the first setup created about 300 MB per day. The new setup creates about 50 MB with better data-locality.
```

+--------------------+  +--------------------+
```

> The instance ID get reused. The plugin data get its own table. All relevant measurement values are on one line. Get out the data is much easier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The instance ID get reused. The plugin data get its own table. All relevant measurement values are on one line. Getting the data out is much easier.
```

> The type, type_inst and value_name get used to create the name of the value column. The impl_location() function handles this "data anomalies" like the ping plugin.

Reviewer: Either:
```suggestion
The type, type_inst and value_name get used to create the name of the value column. The impl_location() function handles this "data anomaly" like the ping plugin.
```
Or:
```suggestion
The type, type_inst and value_name get used to create the name of the value column. The impl_location() function handles these "data anomalies" like the ping plugin.
```

Function description:
---------------------

> There is one sad thing about collectd. The times that are submitted dont match 100%, so there is an epsilon (0.5 sec) that is used to check to what row a value belongs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is one sad thing about collectd. The times that are submitted do not match 100%, so there is an epsilon (0.5 sec) that is used to check to what row a value belongs to.
```

> 1. The procedure collectd_insert() inserts the values into the incoming table and realign the timestamps. It also creates the instances in the instance table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The procedure collectd_insert() inserts the values into the incoming table and realigns the timestamps. It also creates the instances in the instance table.
```

2. The collected data gets moved from the incoming table to the destination tables by the procedure move_data_to_table().

The function impl_location() removes some data anomalies that are there when the data get submitted. There is a default that matches most cases. The plugins cpufreq, ping and memory get their names, plugin_inst get adjusted.

> The plugin_$plugin table (e.g. plugin_apache) then contain all data for that plugin.  If the column is not yet present it is added by this function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin_$plugin table (e.g. plugin_apache) then contains all the data for that plugin.  If the column is not yet present it is added by this function.
```

The procedure move_data_to_table() must be called periodically. In my case by a cron job.

```
root@www-collectd:/etc/cron.d# cat collectd
# Example of job definition:
# .---------------- minute (0 - 59)
# |  .------------- hour (0 - 23)
# |  |  .---------- day of month (1 - 31)
# |  |  |  .------- month (1 - 12) OR jan,feb,mar,apr ...
# |  |  |  |  .---- day of week (0 - 6) (Sunday=0 or 7) OR sun,mon,tue,wed,thu,fri,sat
# |  |  |  |  |
# *  *  *  *  * user-name command to be executed
  0  0  1  *  * root      /opt/collectd/etc/clean-tables.sh
*/1  *  *  *  * root      /opt/collectd/etc/move-data.sh
```

> The procedure collectd_cleanup() is the maintenance function. It has as an argument the number of days where to keep the data. It can be called by pgagent or a similar mechanism like "CALL collectd_cleanup(180)". This delete all data that is older than 180 days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The procedure collectd_cleanup() is the maintenance function. It has as an argument the number of days to keep the data. It can be called by pgagent or a similar mechanism like "CALL collectd_cleanup(180)". This deletes all data that is older than 180 days.
```
